Update First-Time Robot Setup Guide for Modern Gazebo (#618)
ros-navigation/docs.nav2.org: setup_guides/sdf/setup_sdf.rst

.. _sdf_handson:

Setting Up The SDF - Gazebo
###########################

For this guide, we will be creating the SDF (Simulation Description Format) file for a simple differential drive robot to give you hands-on experience on building an SDF file for Gazebo simulation.

.. seealso::
  The complete source code in this tutorial can be found in `navigation2_tutorials <https://github.com/ros-navigation/navigation2_tutorials/tree/master/sam_bot_description>`_ repository under the ``sam_bot_description`` package. Note that the repository contains the full code after accomplishing all the tutorials in this guide.

About SDF
=========

SDF is a file format for simulators, like Gazebo, that describes the simulator environment, models (including its links, connections, and physics simulator metadata), and appropriate plugins. The SDF that we will make is for modern Gazebo, but there are other simulator options such as Open3D Engine or Isaac Sim.

> We can also use our SDF with the robot_state_publisher using the following package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also use our SDF with the robot_state_publisher using the following package. You will see how to do this in the tutorial below.
```

.. code-block:: shell

  sudo apt install ros-<ros2-distro>-sdformat-urdf

This package contains a C++ library and urdf_parser_plugin for converting SDFormat XML into URDF C++ structures. Installing it allows one to use SDFormat XML instead of URDF XML as a robot description.

.. seealso::
  If you want to learn more about the SDF and sdformat_urdf, we encourage you to have a look at the official `SDFormat Website <http://sdformat.org/>`__ and the `sdformat_urdf GitHub repository <https://github.com/ros/sdformat_urdf/tree/rolling/sdformat_urdf>`__

Writing the SDF
================

> For now the SDF will pretty much be a copy of the URDF code converted into SDFormat. Changes between the two descriptions will happen when we start adding various plugins and sensors in the next tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For now the SDF will pretty much be a copy of the URDF code converted into SDFormat. Changes between the two descriptions will happen when we start adding various plugins and sensors in the next tutorials. We also add in physical properties needed by the simulator such as the ineria, mass, and material.
```

.. _sdf_handson:

Setting Up The SDF - Gazebo
###########################

> .. note:: Note that you have already setup a URDF in the previous tutorials but will also need to setup a SDF. URDF is used to set up the robot frames and describe the robot's structure for run-time use on hardware and possibly in simulation. SDF is a specific file for simulators, like Gazebo, that describes the simulator environment, model (including its frames and Gazebo-specific information), and appropriate plugins. The SDF that we will make is for Gazebo, but could be replaced with an appropriate SDF or other format file for Open3D Engine or Isaac Sim.

Reviewer: Remove from here, this is already stated in the URDF tutorial and we can assume that folks that are going through this are going sequentially. If they're cherry-picking which to look at, then we can assume they know about URDF vs SDF already to know which they care about

Author: Done in [cebd588](https://github.com/ros-navigation/docs.nav2.org/pull/618/commits/cebd588795e48e23f2a7b9a08970c054dfd4c9e1).

For this guide, we will be creating the SDF (Simulation Description Format) file for a simple differential drive robot to give you hands-on experience on building an SDF file for Gazebo simulation.

.. seealso::
  The complete source code in this tutorial can be found in `navigation2_tutorials <https://github.com/ros-navigation/navigation2_tutorials/tree/master/sam_bot_description>`_ repository under the ``sam_bot_description`` package. Note that the repository contains the full code after accomplishing all the tutorials in this guide.

About SDF
=========

> SDF is a specific file for simulators, like Gazebo, that describes the simulator environment, model (including its frames and Gazebo-specific information), and appropriate plugins. The SDF that we will make is for Gazebo, but could be replaced with an appropriate SDF or other format file for Open3D Engine or Isaac Sim.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDF is a file format for simulators, like Gazebo, that describes the simulator environment, models (including its links, connections, and physics simulator metadata), and appropriate plugins. The SDF that we will make is for modern Gazebo, but there are other simulator options such as Open3D Engine or Isaac Sim.
```

> We can also use our SDF with the robot_state_publisher but the following package would be required to do that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also use our SDF with the ``robot_state_publisher`` using the following package would be required to do that:
```

Please also show the code for using that package + SDF for the robot state publisher if we're going to make a comment like that

Author: Done in [cebd588](https://github.com/ros-navigation/docs.nav2.org/pull/618/commits/cebd588795e48e23f2a7b9a08970c054dfd4c9e1).

> Please also show the code for using that package + SDF for the robot state publisher if we're going to make a comment like that

By that I just meant that one can pass a SDF file to ``robot_state_publisher`` and it will work similar to a URDF file. I have shown how to do this in the ``Build and Launch`` section.

.. code-block:: shell

  sudo apt install ros-<ros2-distro>-sdformat-urdf

This package contains a C++ library and urdf_parser_plugin for converting SDFormat XML into URDF C++ structures. Installing it allows one to use SDFormat XML instead of URDF XML as a robot description.

.. seealso::
  If you want to learn more about the SDF and sdformat_urdf, we encourage you to have a look at the official `SDFormat Website <http://sdformat.org/>`__ and the `sdformat_urdf GitHub repository <https://github.com/ros/sdformat_urdf/tree/rolling/sdformat_urdf>`__

Writing the SDF
================

For now the SDF will pretty much be a copy of the URDF code converted into SDFormat. Changes between the two descriptions will happen when we start adding various plugins and sensors in the next tutorials.

> Here is the SDF version of the URDF code:

Reviewer: Please provide just the SDF code from the URDF. The imu, diff drive, sensor plugins are covered by later tutorials for adding in and explaining them, so they shouldn't appear here yet. Kind of like how the old tutorial showed setting up URDF with frames, then the odom and sensor tutorials added into it

Author: Sorry, that was done by accident.
Fixed in [cebd588](https://github.com/ros-navigation/docs.nav2.org/pull/618/commits/cebd588795e48e23f2a7b9a08970c054dfd4c9e1).

            </image>
            <clip>
              <near>0.05</near>
              <far>3</far>
            </clip>
          </camera>
          <baseline>0.2</baseline>
          <pointCloudCutoff>0.5</pointCloudCutoff>
          <pointCloudCutoffMax>3.0</pointCloudCutoffMax>
          <distortionK1>0</distortionK1>
          <distortionK2>0</distortionK2>
          <distortionK3>0</distortionK3>
          <distortionT1>0</distortionT1>
          <distortionT2>0</distortionT2>
          <CxPrime>0</CxPrime>
          <Cx>0</Cx>
          <Cy>0</Cy>
          <focalLength>0</focalLength>
          <hackBaseline>0</hackBaseline>
        </sensor>
      </link>
    </model>
  </sdf>

Build and Launch
================
Change the ``default_model_path`` in ``display.launch.py`` to reference the SDF description instead of the URDF one.

.. code-block:: python

  default_model_path = os.path.join(pkg_share, 'src', 'description', 'sam_bot_description.sdf')

Now build and source your package and launch ``display.launch.py``:

.. code-block:: shell

  colcon build --symlink-install
  source install/setup.bash
  ros2 launch sam_bot_description display.launch.py

> 

Reviewer: A screen shot here would be nice

.. _sdf_handson:

Setting Up The SDF - Gazebo
###########################

> .. note:: You can also setup a URDF description, see :ref:`urdf_handson`. It is recommended to setup a SDF instead of URDF if you are going to be using Gazebo. There is no need to setup both URDF and SDF, only one of them is needed.

Reviewer: This not is not true, you do need a URDF file for the robot state publisher to use without a simulator. It is required to have a URDF for a robot for any Nav2 use -- then separately an SDF (or SDF terms embedded into the URDF) for use in simulation.

Reviewer: But I would just delete this entire note. I think we're trying to guide people down best practices and we should have the SDF file. If people want to embed into their URDF, then they can, but I don't think we should be bringing it up

Author: Done in [aa61c35](https://github.com/ros-navigation/docs.nav2.org/pull/618/commits/aa61c35af0cbbf034aff4c5d1eccf7923ceba553).

> For this guide, we will be creating the SDF (Simulation Description Format) file for a simple differential drive robot to give you hands-on experience on working with SDF. We will also setup the robot state publisher and visualize our model in RVIZ. Lastly, we will be adding some kinematic properties to our robot SDF to prepare it for simulation purposes. These steps are necessary to represent all the sensor, hardware, and robot transforms of your robot for use in navigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this guide, we will be creating the SDF (Simulation Description Format) file for a simple differential drive robot to give you hands-on experience on building an SDF file for Gazebo simulation. We will also setup the robot state publisher and visualize our model in RVIZ. Lastly, we will be adding some kinematic properties to our robot SDF to prepare it for simulation purposes. These steps are necessary to represent all the sensor, hardware, and robot transforms of your robot for use in navigation.
```

.. seealso::
  The complete source code in this tutorial can be found in `navigation2_tutorials <https://github.com/ros-navigation/navigation2_tutorials/tree/master/sam_bot_description>`_ repository under the ``sam_bot_description`` package. Note that the repository contains the full code after accomplishing all the tutorials in this guide.

SDF and the Robot State Publisher
==================================

> As discussed in the previous tutorial, one of the requirements for Navigation2 is the transformation from  ``base_link`` to the various sensors and reference frames. This transformation tree can range from a simple tree with only one link from the  ``base_link`` to ``laser_link`` or a tree comprised of multiple sensors located in different locations, each having their own coordinate frame. Creating multiple publishers to handle all of these coordinate frame transformations may become tedious. Therefore, we will be making use of the Robot State Publisher package to publish our transforms. 

Reviewer: Change 2x in the text of "Navigation2" to "Nav2"

Author: Done in [aa61c35](https://github.com/ros-navigation/docs.nav2.org/pull/618/commits/aa61c35af0cbbf034aff4c5d1eccf7923ceba553).

> The Robot State Publisher is a package of ROS 2 that interacts with the tf2 package to publish all of the necessary transforms that can be directly inferred from the geometry and structure of the robot. We need to provide it with the correct SDF and it will automatically handle publishing the transforms. This is very useful for complex transformations but it is still recommended for simpler transform trees. 

Reviewer: This is not true, that is the role of the URDF. The SDF is for simulation. The URDF is what creates the static transform tree that the robot state publisher uses.

This section looks like it is from the URDF tutorial and needs to be updated for SDF :-)

Author: Done in [aa61c35](https://github.com/ros-navigation/docs.nav2.org/pull/618/commits/aa61c35af0cbbf034aff4c5d1eccf7923ceba553).

SDF is a description format primarily used by the Gazebo simulator to define various properties of a robot or other models and to also define a Gazebo world. In this tutorial we are going to be looking at how we can describe a robot using SDF.

.. seealso::
  If you want to learn more about the SDF and the Robot State Publisher, we encourage you to have a look at the official `SDFormat Website <http://sdformat.org/>`__ and `Robot State Publisher Documentation <http://wiki.ros.org/robot_state_publisher>`__  

Setting Up the Environment
==========================

In this guide, we are assuming that you are already familiar with ROS 2 and how to setup your development environment, so we'll breeze through the steps in this section.

Let's begin by installing some additional ROS 2 packages that we will be using during this tutorial.

.. code-block:: shell

  sudo apt install ros-<ros2-distro>-joint-state-publisher-gui
  sudo apt install ros-<ros2-distro>-xacro

>   sudo apt install ros-<ros2-distro>-sdformat_urdf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  sudo apt install ros-<ros2-distro>-sdformat-urdf
```

I'm guessing this is what you mean :wink:

Author: Thanks!

 
Next, create a directory for your project, initialize a ROS 2 workspace and give your robot a name. For ours, we'll be calling it ``sam_bot``.

.. code-block:: shell

>   ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_cmake sam_bot_description

Reviewer: Shouldn't this exist from the URDF tutorial?

Author: Done in [aa61c35](https://github.com/ros-navigation/docs.nav2.org/pull/618/commits/aa61c35af0cbbf034aff4c5d1eccf7923ceba553).

Writing the SDF
================

> Now that we have our project workspace set up, let's dive straight into writing the SDF. Below is an image of the robot we will be trying to build.

Reviewer: I'm going to stop here on this tutorial - this is a copy-ish of the URDF tutorial. I think this needs to be re-written as an SDF tutorial. The user has a URDF from the previous tutorial already complete. This should be about writing the SDF file to compliment the URDF for use in GZ

Author: Done in [aa61c35](https://github.com/ros-navigation/docs.nav2.org/pull/618/commits/aa61c35af0cbbf034aff4c5d1eccf7923ceba553).
